In computer science, heap and stack refer to two different areas of memory used for storing data. Each has different characteristics and is used for different purposes within a program.

1. Stack:
The stack is a region of memory that stores data in a last-in, first-out (LIFO) manner. 
It is used for storing local variables and function call information.

Key Characteristics:
Memory Allocation: Memory for variables is automatically allocated and deallocated when a function is called and returns, respectively.
Fast Access: The stack is very fast because memory allocation is done by adjusting the stack pointer.
Size: The stack typically has a limited size, often much smaller than the heap. A stack overflow occurs when there is too much memory allocated (e.g., deep recursion or allocating large arrays).
Storage: Stores local variables, function parameters, and return addresses. These are variables that are temporary and live only within the scope of a function call.
Scope: Stack-allocated variables only exist while the function is executing. Once the function returns, the variables are automatically destroyed.

Example (C++):
void foo() 
{
    int x = 10;  // Stored in the stack
    int y = 20;  // Stored in the stack
}

Stack vs. Heap in terms of Memory Usage:
Stack: Fast allocation/deallocation, limited size, local scope, and usually small.
Heap: Slower allocation/deallocation, larger size, and used for dynamic memory.

2. Heap:
The heap is a region of memory used for dynamic memory allocation, where variables are created at runtime.
Memory on the heap is manually allocated and deallocated by the programmer (e.g., using new/delete in C++ or malloc/free in C).

Key Characteristics:
Memory Allocation: Memory is allocated manually during runtime using functions like new, malloc, and similar. 
The programmer must also manually deallocate the memory using delete, free, or similar.

Slower Access: Memory allocation and deallocation on the heap are slower than the stack because the heap is more flexible and requires more bookkeeping.
Size: The heap is typically much larger than the stack and can grow as needed (limited by system memory).
Scope: Variables on the heap persist until they are explicitly deallocated, meaning they don't automatically disappear 
when the function that created them exits.

Example (C++):
void foo() 
{
    int* x = new int(10);  // Allocated in the heap
    // Do something with x...
    delete x;  // Free the memory
}

Key Differences between Stack and Heap:

Feature	Stack	Heap
Memory Allocation	Automatically done (local variables)	Manually done by the programmer (new, malloc, etc.)
Memory Deallocation	Automatically (when function exits)	Manually done by the programmer (delete, free, etc.)
Size	Smaller, limited size	Larger, can grow as needed (system memory limits)
Speed	Faster due to simple management	Slower due to manual allocation/deallocation
Scope	Local to function/block	Can persist beyond function scope until explicitly deallocated
Use Case	Local variables, function call info	Dynamic memory allocation for objects or large data structures
Lifetime	Tied to the function call or block	Controlled manually, persists until freed

When to Use Stack vs. Heap:
Stack: Use for small, temporary data that is only needed within the scope of a function. 
Examples: local variables, function parameters, and return addresses.
Heap: Use when you need dynamic memory, such as when creating objects whose size is not known at compile time or
when you need to share data across different parts of the program that outlive a single function call. 
Examples: large arrays, objects, or dynamically allocated structures.

Example (When to Use Stack or Heap):
Stack: A function that sums two integers would use the stack for the variables storing the integers and the sum.
Heap: A program that needs to store a large array whose size isn't known until runtime would allocate memory on the heap.

Summary:
Stack: Quick memory allocation and deallocation, used for small, temporary data, and has a limited size.
Heap: Slower, more flexible memory allocation, used for dynamic data that persists beyond function calls, and typically larger in size.
Both the stack and heap are essential for managing memory in a program, but they serve different purposes and are used in 
different scenarios based on the lifetime and size of the data being stored.
